>> Erik Reinert: All right, so
now let's talk about microservices.
So we talked about generic services,
and to be clear, like,
even at Hippo, where I work,
we mostly have generic services.
Microservices are something you
really have to think about and
why you're doing them
the way that you are.
Also, microservices normally nine times
out of ten have a coupling to a team,
an ownership of some sort.
For example, [LAUGH] why give
a team ten microservices to manage
when they only really need manage
one generic service, right?
And that's another architectural
decision that you wanna think about.
Is there a reason why we're splitting
these all into individual services, or is
it because you have a lot of teams and you
want this team to just handle payments.
You want this team to just
handle the outflow, right?
And at a huge company that's
why micro services work so
well, is because that a company
again like Google, Amazon, Netflix,
whatever they have hundreds of teams,
right?
And thousands of engineers potentially.
And so that's when it becomes more micro
where those teams, one team's auth,
one team's security, one team's,
again, payments, right?
Things like that.
But each of these teams are handling these
services that are potentially processing
thousands of requests at a given time.
It's almost like, if you really think
about it in the simplest of terms,
it's still a service, but
the scope of concern becomes much smaller.
And that's why we call it a microservice.
That's really the only reason why,
is because the scope of the concern of
the service is much smaller to the team.
So, microservices are a specific
style of service-based architecture.
In a microservice architecture,
each service is small,
independent, and loosely coupled.
Then again,
small being the real key word here.
If you have a service that
is handling multiple things,
you do not have a microservice,
you have a generic service.
If you have a service that is only
solving one specific problem,
then you potentially might
have a micro service.
Another thing about microservices
are they run in their own process always.
So, they'll normally always run in their
own process as compared to generic
services where you still might be able
to couple them with a monolith or
something like that.
Microservices run in their own process,
and they communicate nine
times out of ten with other services
using protocols such as HTTP REST or
messaging queues or
gRPC or things like that.
So, if you have services that
are not talking to each other and
don't have a small specific requirement,
you're just dealing with services.
And so I would encourage everyone
out there, whether you're working on
a project by yourself or working at a
company to look at your services and ask,
am I actually using
a microservice architecture?
Or am I just using a service
based architecture?
I have had this at Hippo where
we've had people be like, yeah,
we have a microservice architecture.
And I'll be like, where?
Tell me, where do we have
a microservice architecture?
And nine times out of ten, they can't
because a lot of the times it's individual
services being accessed directly instead
of services being interconnected,
talking to each other.
Now, we do have microservices, we do,
but it's not as many as I think
people may think you have.
>> Speaker 2: When would you change from a
monolithic architecture to microservices?
>> Erik Reinert: So, you probably
would not go from monoliths to micro.
That's a huge jump, that normally means
that your company is scaled huge or
gotten quite larger.
That would mean that, a good way of
looking at it is is that the specific
component in your monoliths has grown so
big that a specific team has to handle
that one specific component, right?
That's really when a microservice becomes
something that you need to separate
like that.
Normally, what you would do is
you would split off into like,
a service that handles a specific thing or
something like that.
But it still is coupled with
other services in some way,
which means that service has a dependency
on other services which means it's not
really a microservice.
A microservice,
a good example of a microservice
which we'll show here in a second,
is only having one service with one
database processing one specific thing.
And then another service with
another database processing another
specific thing.
But if you have services that
are potentially sharing databases and
stuff like that, those domains
are technically crossing still.
So, you have to have a really
good line in the sand of like,
this is just this microservice and
what it does and what it access, and
it doesn't necessarily touch or
need to touch anything else.
But if you have that requirement
where you can say like, okay,
this one specific feature
doesn't touch anything.
It can just exist on its own,
then that's a good opportunity to
create that into like a microservice.
And again, I wanna note,
messaging queues in this,
we talked about HTTP/REST or
messaging queues.
Microservices can also be what I call,
or what we call it, my workers, right?
Which is it's on a queue listening for
one event, and that's all it does.
That is a microservice.
So if you have a scenario where, say,
you're processing chat messages and
you just wanna process
Twitch chat messages.
Then you would have a microservice that
just processes the messaging from Twitch
chat services.
That's all it does,
it doesn't do anything.
A good way of looking at microservices
are kind of what we're gonna talk about in
a little bit, which is also serverless or
functions, where it just has one goal.
And every time you hit that microservice,
it basically just does the same thing,
right?
And you can scale that individual
function to N amount.
So having a really good understanding of
that logical separation and how big or
small that impacts other systems is when
you're gonna be in either a service or
microservice.
>> Speaker 2: If you were to,
I guess in your own example,
if you want to grab that server that
receives chat messages and he's gonna get
messages from different providers at
that point would that be called in?
Or will you consider a generic service or
a generic service instead
of a microservice?
>> Erik Reinert: So
if it was processing both providers, yeah,
it would become a generic service.
Yeah, because it's doing more than one
thing, you have to have more than one
maintain it on it, you have to modify
more than one thing with that.
And so, yeah, it would become more
generic in that sense than saying this
one thing does this one thing scale
it to as much as you want, yeah.
So this is actually a scenario of a
service working with microservices, right?
Now, when we first talked about
the design we saw earlier,
we saw our front end and
our back end in two separate services, but
they really kind of handle generic things,
right?
In this scenario, what we're doing is
just we're saying, well, you know what?
We wanna front end to be a service because
we know that that's going to handle all of
our front end requests, but we wanna have
a specific team handle the user's service
or microservice in this case.
And it only has its own database,
it has its own logical unit,
you can see that users has no
shared data with payments.
What this also means is that the users
database may have records inside
of it that even relate to one or
the other, but
it's just a relational like ID
potentially or no ID whatsoever,
which could mean that the user's
database only has user IDs in it.
And the payment database only
has payment IDs in it, and
then those are joined together somehow
via lookups or other kinds of requests.
But this type of logical separation makes
it so that my team can own the users
microservice, anything else with it, and
then have that database ownership as well.
>> Speaker 2: Now, even users,
in this case, is rough,
because you could still kind of consider
the user service as a generic service.
>> Erik Reinert: It could be doing a lot,
right?
So if you wanted to take this step
further, you could even say that
maybe this is the, update users or
something like that, right?
But this is just to kinda give you
that logical separation of, okay,
this team manages this,
and they don't really need to communicate
or work, explicitly together.
They can work separately, and then
whenever a change is made from any one or
the other they just update those
teams of hey, we updated the scheme.
Hey, we did this and
the other teams can work accordingly.
Another thing about microservices and
I didn't really include it in this design,
but it's kind of shown which
is the front end is used as almost
like proxy to those services, right?
So, the user themselves do not
talk to the user's service or
the payment service, right?
Those are being sent through the front
end so that the front end then has its
own standards of how it talks to these
internal services or microservices.
And we don't necessarily need to worry
about, well, if we change something to
users, does it need to be updated all the
way to the user-facing side here, right?
It's just the coupling of
these two segments here.
And so this could be gRPC, for example,
but then this could be HTTP, right?
And honestly going back to like,
languages and stuff like that.
Go is a really great language to
build services and microservices in.
Go has a lot of really
good tooling around.
I've said it a few times with gRPC, which
is basically a really great protocol.
And the reason why is because gRPC
allows you to describe schemas and
then share those schemas throughout
your architecture as clients.
And so, in the circumstance of
having a user's microservice and
a payment's microservice or anything
like that, I could write it in Go,
generate clients for the front end.
And I don't even have to
write that request code.
I don't have to go in and write like
an HTTP request and a URL endpoint.
The microservices should
generate their own clients so
that they can just be embedded into any
upstream or downstream services easily.
So if those clients get updated, they just
get regenerated, and then the services
around them can easily just pull in
those changes and use those new clients.
This makes it really easy to maintain
distributed services, because now there
really isn't even much of a communication
needed between the two teams.
It's just saying, hey,
we updated our schemas.
Go run an update on your client code,
get the latest version of the client and
you're good to go, right?
This is very similar to services that
exist outside of your architecture, right?
A lot of SDKs and things like that,
these are basically your own internal SDKs
that become available that you can use. And
again Go's really great at services and
microservices.
So, it is it is one I recommend,
as a matter of fact,
it's probably the only
one I [LAUGH] recommend.
I built services and
microservices in Nodo.js.
Don't recommend it,
it's got its own overhead and challenges.
Again Rust Is a great language,
but I feel like,
there's a really big reason
to why you would use Rust.
And most of the times it's not for
building web [LAUGH] applications.
You normally have a much more specific
need of like, memory, security,
things like that,
Go really checks off a lot of those boxes.
So, if you were to ask me,
what would I build a monolith in?
Whatever you want, [LAUGH] it doesn't
matter, whatever you want, whatever your
team's comfortable with, like, genuinely
do whatever you want with a monolith.
That's really, the monolith is there
to really get you to move quick.
But when you're talking about
distribution and needing like,
a standardized flow of updating things, Go
really is great for creating services and
microservices, because a lot of
the tooling that's been built around it.
And a lot of the stuff that exists in
the world today, as a matter of fact,
it's one of the reasons
why it was created.
Google needed a better approach
to creating safe systems, but
also be able to make them really quickly.
And so that's why we have gRPC, that's
why we have Go, And those two are so
tightly coupled because they work so
well together